'I love the excitement of getting onto the
motorcycle and knowing that theoretically
I can ride for as long as I want and I can
go absolutely anywhere.
That kind of independence and freedom is for
me as close as one can get to Nirvana.
My name is Chris, I'm a former Royal Marine.
I served for eight years.
I was injured and medically discharged.
I've been in Afghanistan for two years and
I decided some time ago, probably about a
year and a half ago, that it would be terribly
exciting to buy a motorcycle here and ride
it back.'
1 motorcycle / 1 4x4 / 16 countries / 7500
km / Some of the most hostile terrain on the
planet.
'It was still going to be very much a rag-tag
affair sourcing vehicles from Kabul, Afghanistan
and riding them back to London.
I got in touch with a charity called Mission
Motorsport, which is an affiliated charity
of Help for Heroes.
So I got in touch with the guys and said,
"I would like to do this and raise money for
you".
They do a lot of pretty unique work taking
guys who have been through the system and
who are leaving the military, who have been
injured, guys who have got sick and putting
them into an environment where you can recreate
some of the teamwork, the camaraderie, the
adrenaline, in a positive environment whilst
the guys are undergoing medical treatment
and other types of treatment.
I was completely overwhelmed by people's interest
in what I wanted to do, to the point where
the trip became bigger than just me on a motorcycle
and so we decided to have a support vehicle
come with us, come with me, and I asked Domenic
to come along.'
'He said "Let's go" and I said "Sure why not"
and very quickly it started becoming more
real.
We got a car.
We got somebody to help fix it up.
Everything got painted, we got some gear,
we started taking day trips.
Now it's about two months out and it's starting
to get quite real, so yes, a little apprehension
starting to pop up.
So we're going to head up through Afghanistan,
which I guess is the hairy part, then a few
of the other 'stans' and I guess we'll just
pull off to the side of the road every night,
pitch a tent, heat up some beans and keep
going.'
'Not everybody out here is the enemy.
Actually the reality is that 99.9 per cent
of the people here are desperate to get along,
they're very, very friendly, they're kind,
they are normal people and I like getting
out and seeing that.'